I would like your help developing a new feature for my electron app. It should be a button on the bottom bar next to confirm image that is called "night". This button is essentially a macro which will execute the function copy from previous and then confirm the image and then skip to the next image. Essentially, it's automating a few keystrokes that the user has to do right now when they encounter a night photo. The expected behavior is that they're not actually labeling the photo. They're just carrying the previous information from the last good photo and quickly moving through all night images. There's another important aspect that this button should do as well, which is create a new entry in the configurations that JSON file. This entry should be called "Night" and if you click the "NIght" button it should return true and it should be false for all other cases. This will allow me to quickly filter out these records when I do my analysis. I can anticipate overshooting the night button by clicking too fast and accidentally labeling daytime photos as night. Clicking the reset image button should fix this issue by resetting the night JSON entry to false. I would like you to thoroughly review the existing code to see how all of this logic can be fit in. Do you have any questions for me?

Addendums
There should be a visual confirmation that an image is labeled as "Night". For example, in the top right corner, instead of saying "Confirmed", it can be a lighter blue and say "Night".